9:00 a.m. in Shanghai Shenzhen and here
in Hong Kong you're watching the China
show. I'm Y Ivon [music] man with David
and Glass.
>> Good morning. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. Let's
get to your top stories today. [music]
Oil is on the up. Both stocks are under
pressure amidst of course escalating
Middle East tensions [music] reviving
concerns over energy supplies.
>> The US striking military targets in Iran
in response [music] to an attack on navy
destroyers as President Trump presses
Tyrron to accept a deal to reopen the
straight of Hormuz. And Trump summit
with Xi Jinping next week stays on track
despite Chinese officials [music]
concerns about holding the meeting
before the Iran war is resolved.
[music]
Well, seems like it [music] is of course
once again the headlines when it comes
to Iran has kind of led things to the
other [music] side of the trade here.
What yesterday? Um, now that we see that
tensions are flaring up once again, but
we take a look at the market reaction
though, it's only some parts of the
market that are reacting, right? You
were very clear to kind of highlight
that too.
>> Yeah, I mean there is some reaction.
It's not as pronounced and I think the
the the the magnitude to which markets
are reacting to to these types of
headlines has certainly died down. It's
not gone completely away. Of course,
that's very clear as well. uh when you
look at the sort of don era story it's
also worth pointing out going into these
headlines markets risk assets were doing
well uh overall and I think it did help
somewhat sentiment that after of course
we did get confirmation of those uh that
pick up in attacks we'll get more
details on this right that we did
immediately get a message coming through
out of the US side that this wasn't
meant to escalate things but it was more
defensive uh in nature but that said it
is generally risk off in Asia but S&P
futures are now up for the day
>> yeah so maybe you know we're still
assessing what this means And obviously
the news that you know, President Trump
said Project Freedom uh to guide
stranded ships through the Hormuz uh is
actually going to be restarted. Uh that
could actually be a concern in some ways
too because that is what led to the
latest flare up uh in the first place.
But certainly uh markets are trying to
to do this day by day, but you know, we
still have some things that are, you
know, in place. It seems at least we
know that it hasn't derailed this Trump
she meeting. It looks like things are
still going ahead next week.
>> Yeah, that's going to be a big one of
course going into next week. And I think
some of the pricing around markets
suggests that it's going to be largely a
non-event. Markets are still tied to the
AI story with Nvidia the week after when
you look at some uh data that's come
through. We'll we'll talk about that in
a moment. Uh a couple of other things,
right? So the dollar weakness story has
really showed up this week in the form
of a yuan and we're looking at the
fixing today because in case you missed
that overnight, uh the the offshore uh
currency actually dipp below that 680
handle for the first time in a while. So
we did manage to take that out. We're a
little bit above that right now. That
takes us into the other currency story
which is the yen. And we now have our
estimates of how large that uh suspected
seconds foray into the market was. In
total, I think we're talking now 55
billion over the two suspected
interventions. There's I mean the bill
is quite large here and as far as uh
this one was concerned.
>> Yep. and and the the speculation is did
it do enough right given the fact that
you know it didn't break below 155 you
know maybe it shows that the dynamics
around the yen is still tilted toward
more weakness uh for the currency here
just given the dollar dynamics we've
seen of late as well but yes we've been
crunching the numbers for you as well uh
but let's get to the latest here when it
comes to what what's happening with Iran
American forces say that they have
responded to Iranian attacks on navy
destroyers as they were sailing in the
straight of Hormuz it comes as Iran
State media say the US attacked an
Iranian tanker. For more, let's bring in
Michael Heath. He joins us from Sydney.
Uh Michael, just bring us up to speed.
Uh it seems like things are tensions are
coming back. You know, tell us a bit
more about the latest.
>> Yeah, Ivonne. Uh as you as you
mentioned, um Iranian forces attacked
three uh US destroyers that were in the
straight of Hormuz. Uh they came under
attack from drones, from these small
boats with, you know, rocket launchers
and things on them we've seen around
there. uh as well as missiles. Now, it
doesn't seem like any of the um of the
US vessels were hit. Um they managed to
deflect all these attacks and they in
turn have then fired on the bases and
and the launches from which they came
from. So, in a sense it was sort of a a
skirmish in the straight if you want and
um President Trump actually referred to
it earlier as a as a love tap from the
US which is a little bit extraordinary
but nonetheless um the US seems fairly
adamant that that this is not a
violation of the ceasefire. basically
it's still this sort of jocking around
the um the movement of ships through the
the straight of Hormuz and uh as you
mentioned earlier about the um you know
this idea of of project freedom of of
bringing out some of the ships that are
um that are stranded at the moment in
the Persian Gulf um the Wall Street
Journal was reporting that that part of
the reason it seems that the President
Trump suspended that program quite you
know about 36 hours after it began was
because there had been some disputes
with um with Saudi Arabia in particular
about using its bases to help um oversee
the defense of any ships. Um so that
seems to have now sort of been cleared.
Basically the Saudis were worried that
the US perhaps you know the US been
playing down Iran Iranian attacks on on
some of the Gulf states and whether the
US would be protecting them as well.
That seems to have been resolved which
sort of I guess opens the door
potentially for it to happen again. But
again as you mentioned you know that
also opens the door for potentially
attacks on on these things and whether
that brings us more fighting or not
we'll have to see. But the strong view
from the White House is sort of that the
ceasefire remains. They're waiting to
hear from Iran on their proposal.
>> Yeah. The one pager uh on that. So I
mean we yet again here we are on a
Friday. We're going into the weekend
with really not knowing what the weekend
will hold. Michael, just take us uh take
us through what the specifics are going
into the next 72 hours here.
>> Yeah, David. Well, so it must be getting
fairly close. I mean the US had
mentioned about 48 hours they expected
for Iran to respond. Now Bloomberg was
reporting that um that the president of
Iran had gone and had a meeting with the
the new supreme leader. There was no
information on what they discussed. Um
one can perhaps summize that they were
discussing whether they're discussing
this US proposal but that the basic idea
of the plan is that that gradually um
Iran would open the straight of Horses.
the US would release its blockade on on
Iran, its naval blockade, and they could
start moving moving traffic through. Uh,
and in the meantime, there would be a
period, a 30-day period where they
negotiators could come together face to
face to try to bring the conflict to an
end. And this the step then is to try
and deal with the nuclear issue as well.
Now, uh, Iran has sort of there's been
comments in the state press there, which
obviously doesn't necessarily represent
the official viewpoint, but one of the
viewpoints at least, um, saying that the
nuclear issue, you know, has nothing to
do with this, this is talking about
ending the war. So, it it is still
fairly clouded how it's going to work.
But it does seem though that if if Iran
was to accept these proposals and the US
does seem to have gone some way to
consiliating Iran in terms of talking
about moratoriums or enrichment and and
these sort of things um that that we
could that would be a step in the right
direction. But really until we hear back
it's unclear and as I've mentioned
before because of the decapitation of
the leadership of Iran early in the war
there are various factions there. So
it's sort of unclear who's who has the
final say and the military has shown
signs of doing things differently to the
political side as well. So really really
clouded as as um you know you sort of
indicated we've often been in this
situation coming into the weekend.
>> Michael, thank you uh for getting us up
to speed. Michael Heath there in Sydney
for us as we count down to the open the
final session of the week just over 20
minutes away. Just to tell you about
that it's had [music] it's really been a
somewhat somewhat of a breakout of a
week. I think Msei China with a full
trading day left granted is on track for
the best week of 2026 [music] and I
think the Shanghai composite came within
two points and we'll see if we get there
by the end of the session of a fresh
10-year high. So the markets in [music]
mainland China have somewhat been
ignoring some of the geopolitical noise
and perhaps that goes [music] into uh
this preview of this big meeting next
week uh scheduled meeting I should note.
A couple of other things, the 680
handle, we talked about that. And I
think we're on sale as far as CGBs
[music] goes. Two and 30-year debt uh is
on tap uh today on southbound flows. Two
straight days of net selling amidst the
[music] rally. So, lots to get into the
nuance here. So, yep. Uh we're
approaching the Friday open [music] just
22 minutes away. Lots more ahead. This
is the China Show.
[music]
Uh we're looking at a softer approach uh
to the open today, about a fourth of
[music] 1% on A50 futures. Uh the yield
is slightly to the downside and of
course the the currency is still very
near that 680. We took that out
overnight by the way and we'll get to
fixing in about 3 minutes uh from now.
>> All right. Uh this Iran conflict of
course is still casting a shadow over an
expected meeting between Presidents
Trump and Xi next week in Beijing. And
that's as a White House official says
there have been no scheduling changes.
Let's bring in our China correspondent
Milo. What we know so far, the Chinese
have not confirmed this meeting yet.
>> Yeah, they're keeping us waiting for the
official announcement. They have not
confirmed, but I think the good news is
they also have not officially asked for
a delay yet. uh and it's quite typical
of China that t they would usually would
keep presidency's schedule under a tight
lid uh just to you know usually they
would announce this at the very last
minute but at least from a white house
official that requested anonymity the
summit is going to go ahead um but we
understand that China still is
expressing some unease that this is
happening with the Iran war still
unresolved according to sources Chinese
officials have been telling their
European counterparts that they were
hoping that the blockade administrative
hummus would end before Trump visits
China. But of course, the hopes of that
is diminishing as we count down the days
to the summit next week.
>> Yeah, it looks unlikely at at this
point. U Steve Danes, the US senator I
think from Montana was what met before.
>> Yeah, so this is just another sign that
the preparatory sort of work is underway
because Steve Danes led a bipartisan uh
congressional delegation to China and he
met with some senior Chinese officials
including the foreign minister Wangi,
including the premier Liang and Jaoli as
well. And according to the Chinese
readout of what happened, uh the Chinese
officials uh mentioned a number of
things including uh the Taiwan red line
that the US shouldn't cross. They also
mentioned they were willing to continue
working with the US to keep their
relationship on a stable path. Um and
also they mentioned the US suppression
of China's AI development. So these are
potential issues that could be on the
table next week because Steve Gaines is
expected to brief the US president
directly on his observations in China
and is seen as in some ways a sort of
interlocutor because uh back in the
first trade war in 2017 he also met with
the then trade negotiator uh at the time
and sort of went acted as an as a
go-between between presidency and Trump.
We're hearing a little bit more about
the the the possible delegation that's
going to be following the President
Trump to Beijing. Who do we know so far?
That's that's
>> Yeah, there has been some rumblings of
this and we're hearing from sources
there. For example, we have Jane Fraser
from Cityroup who is going. Uh we have
uh Blackstone Group CEO uh Steve
Schwarzman who is going as well. And we
have other media reports suggesting that
uh major CEOs of big companies like
Nvidia, Qualcomm, Apple, uh Boeing as
well, they could be invited on this trip
and just dissecting some of the sectors
that these companies represent, right?
You have of course the financial sector
like like Visa, like Blackstone. So that
perhaps suggests maybe there could be
discussions around the opening up of
China's financial services sector to
foreign firms for example and you have
the tech companies there. So clearly
that's going to be on the agenda
potentially discussing you know just how
much China is going to purchase those
H200 chips because those sales haven't
come through yet even is even as we
reported previously that China provided
these pre-approval to some companies to
buy them and Boeing of course we
previously reported about this potential
500 jet deal but of course nothing is a
done deal but the fact that these deleg
delegates are accompanying suggests uh
you know you can get ahead of what sort
of issues and deals could be on the
Yeah. And I think Nvidia reported to be
joining, but I think on the record the
CEO said that he would be willing to
join if he was invited to
>> telling CNBC.
>> Yeah. He was telling CNBC that well he
needs to then if he does go Jensen Wong,
he needs to make the trip back because
their earnings of course the week after
that and you've been looking at this
very interesting data point as as far as
markets go in terms of the relevance of
next week relative to the other big
items in the agenda over the next two
weeks. Yeah, if you look at the SPX uh
implied volatility and you can pull up
the chart there, markets are not really
pricing in any big move when it comes to
the Trump C summit. It's seen as pretty
much a nothing burger. If you look at
the peaks there are the Israel Lebanon
deadline and the Nvidia earnings
deadline. Those are the big potential
market movers. So it looks like no one
is thinking about or having a lot of
expectations that there are going to be
huge headlines that could move markets
when it comes to the Trump C summit. Uh
but of course trade issues are going to
be on the agenda because we have the US
federal court striking down or a ruling
that it's you know the US cannot impose
those temporary tariffs that was meant
to be a stop gap measure to replace the
AIPA tariffs. So, those have been struck
down, but it doesn't change the risk of
things escalating because the US has
still um you know, they have found other
ways like the section 301 investigation
into Chinese overcapacity that could
still pave the way for more terrorists
for China.
>> All right, Mim, thank you. Our China
correspondent Mim Low there on the
latest of what to expect next week. Uh
meanwhile, when it comes to the issue of
trade between the US and China, it
really has been this dominance that
China has over rare earth that has
really emerged as one of Beijing's most
effective geopolitical levers. Now, this
chart really shows the extent of China's
control of the industry, right? Ensuring
access to these minerals is likely to be
a priority for President Trump as he
meets Xiinping next week. and Blubber
Economics notes that despite
Washington's significant investments in
alternative sources, the US is still
years away from denting China's grip on
the sector.
>> Let's h bring in Chris Kennedy who leads
uh of course for who is the lead of
course for economic state craft at
Bloomberg economics. He joins us from
Washington. Fantastic data, fantastic
piece from your team here. So, I mean,
this was a major topic going into the
the last time these two met back late
last year, and I I wonder how big you
think it will feature in next week's
talks, and how much progress you think
we will see if it does feature quite
heavily.
>> Thanks, David. Yeah, of course, last
April when uh the first flare up after
liberation day and then China cut off
exports of magnets and rare earths to
the US, it really shook the world. Uh we
expect that the US is going into this
meeting hoping not to upset the boat. As
you noted, China retains significant
control over the supply of these very
important inputs to a variety of
commercial and strategic industries both
in the US, Europe, Japan, elsewhere. Uh
and so we do think a primary objective
of this meeting for the US side is to
ensure that we don't see a repeat of
that disruption that we saw last year.
You you said in your piece that it's
it's going to be difficult for anyone to
really break this grip that China has on
rare earth. What what makes that
dominance so unique?
So often this is framed around you know
China's desire to you know have this
this leverage point for geopolitical
purposes. I think uh what gets lost in
the conversation in the US and and
elsewhere is how this dominance really
came to to exist in the first place and
specifically the role that China's
massive manufacturing economy plays. uh
you know China has worked for many
decades to secure supplies of important
raw material inputs to feed its
industrial you know its export
manufacturing economy and this is part
of that story and I think our analysis
uncovers some of those details
specifically that more than 70% of the
rare earth oxides that are either
produced in China or imported into China
are retained for value added
manufacturing only about 10% of those
rare Earth oxides are turned into
magnets that are then exported as
magnets to the rest of the world. So
this is a really uh a really challenging
obstacle to overcome. This industry is
characterized by significant economies
of scale and it's going to take the US
working with partners to establish a
sufficient level of demand to keep uh
alternative supplies, you know, viable
outside of China.
Yeah, it's it's hard to imagine how we
could get to that point of even just
being at parody. It's it's time as you
point out and capital here, Chris. Uh so
so the card still remains that's the I
mean pardon the pun that's the that's
China's trump card here still you think?
>> Uh certainly it's one I mean this is you
know one set of minerals rare earth
materials. uh China also has uh
significant uh control over other uh
both raw material uh supply chains and
other things like you know precursors to
pharmaceuticals etc. Uh but this is an
important one and it feeds into really
politically salient industries in the US
like the automotive industry. So you
know again we think we're expecting uh
an effort to keep this data in place for
the foreseeable future. You know this
doesn't uh mean that the US isn't making
progress. I think it is important to
note that the the Trump administration
has invested quite a bit of uh money and
effort into diversifying supply chains,
but it is going to take, you know, some
years uh before those projects really
come to fruition and offer uh a
commercially relevant alternative.
>> Chris, it's great to have you. Thanks
for staying late for us. Chris Kennedy
there who leads our economic state craft
at Bloomberg economics. uh your reme Fix
just crossing the Bloomberg here in the
last couple of moments there. Um 6852
from first glance that looks pretty
weak, Dave, but relative to Yeah.
relative to what this the spot prices
are here at the moment. So um you know
maybe there is sense that they're trying
to slow down the ascent that we've seen
now that we have hit that 680 level.
>> Yeah. Um so it's certainly a spread that
we've been watching very closely [music]
the estimates to the actual spot rate as
well. Uh it's also worth pointing out
here, so we're just getting further
headlines, not major ones, but just to
tell you about half a billion in terms
[music] of open market operations there.
So in terms of managing the some of the
the shorter end of some of the rate
curves here uh coming up on deck and of
course we also have a 2n speaking of a 2
and a 30-year bond option coming through
today [music] out of China. Lots more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
All right, taking a little [music] live
pictures out of Sebu here this morning.
The Philippines welcoming and opening
ceremonies [music]
of the 48th Azion Summit and related
meetings is underway. So certainly we're
going to watch uh what sort of messaging
is going to come out from the region
here and whether it's energy security
and the like given the volatility that
we've seen around oil prices and the
fluidity of this Iran war certainly does
lead them to look a little bit more
inwards uh within Azion but certainly
there you go you're seeing some of these
big cars coming in and heading to the
red carpet here this morning.
>> Yes, a doesn't look like a long one but
a fairly [laughter] wide red
>> wide red carpet.
>> Very wide red carpet. Hard hard to miss.
Hard to miss. Yeah. So, uh, we've been
seeing actually a lot of Azan leaders,
uh, one by one start to make their way,
of course, into into the venue. Of
course, we'll bring you more live
pictures, of course, coming through. And
I think it's it's interesting that it it
is being held, of course, in the
Philippines, which arguably is ground
zero for sort of the energy shock pinch
amidst everything else that's going on
there. So, we will revisit the Azan
leader summit a bit later on in the
show. In the meantime, going into the
session today, we're down about 1% on
the Hangen index, fairly consistent with
the drop we're seeing uh just about
across the region. Today, uh it's worth
pointing out that uh the Hanks, well,
the Hong Kong market specifically really
had a breakout two days. So, Wednesday
and Thursday were quite substantial to
the upside. And uh that said, we're
still on track for the best week, but it
doesn't look like we'll get there if we
hold on to these losses today.
>> Yeah, already 1% losses in the get-go in
the pre-market for the hang sang. Um but
certainly in terms of stocks to watch
here this morning. The oil sort of story
is certainly one thing to watch just
given what we've seen that 2% pop in in
oil prices there. Uh you are seeing SEO
is up but some of the other names are
actually lower here this morning. So um
it it's really kind of a mixed picture
here right now. But yes, we take a look
at China tech stocks right we had big
movers yesterday uh among some of the
big tech names here. So the likes of
Huah Hong, Sammy, Quai, Alibaba. Looks
like we're coming off that right now.
Yeah, taking some money off the table
following the big gains that we had. Of
course, by the way, a bit later on,
Goldman Sachs has a revised target for
the A shares, I believe. Talk about that
later. Uh, going into the open today.
Uh, two stocks to tell you about in the
early going. So, by due
>> uh we're up 3% in the early going. So,
it's AI chip unit, Kun Shin, has filed
an IPO tutoring process. Um, I'm not
sure what that means. uh at the Shanghai
Star Board. That's according to a filing
there uh on the uh CSRC website. And of
course, the other one is ENN Energy up
uh more than uh of course by doing the
early going. So that's just something to
note here. 3 and a half% to the upside.
Right. Uh we'll have the opening bell
coming up next for you. [music] Plus of
course that revised projection coming
through out of Goldman Sachs. The Friday
session 3 minutes away. This is the
[music] China show.
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to the show. Happy
Friday. The sun is out. It is high
[music] rocks weekend here in Hong Kong.
So shirtless men per square mile is
going to peak globally here uh in the
city. So that's just really uh one of
the features I believe that's going to
be very much
>> so much to look forward to David as a
countdown not just to Hierox but of
course uh this this [music] battle I
guess this meeting between the US and
China in Beijing late next week. So a
week from now hopefully we'll get a
little bit more of the talking about the
outcomes of this meeting or you know is
this just going to be a whole nothing
burger just given [music] the dynamics
between the two with the Iran situation
certainly making things complicated but
as we know things are going as scheduled
uh as according to the US [music]
yeah China has not though um confirmed
whether this meeting is happening or not
>> nor denied nevertheless we're we're
we're still hope bracing for some sort
of news uh next week uh CSI 300 know
like the late this tensions certainly is
weighing a little bit on risk sentiment
here although it's it's by the margin
depends on what pockets of the market
that you look at at right now with
stocks just given the runup we saw this
week right when you talk about uh the
Msei China has is said for the best week
all year you know we are seeing a little
bit of consolidation here today CSI 300
we're around that 4900 level interesting
enough Goldman Sachs coming through with
the latest they're raising the target
for the CSI 300 uh to now 5,300
from 5,000. So they said the investment
case when it comes to Asares is actually
looks more compelling uh because of what
you're seeing offshore China right now
most act attractively valued but since a
big chunk of a third of MSI China is
broadly software related they say look
that means ashares in the near term uh
could could actually lag as the market
now prefers hardware. So certainly
there's there's lots to to kind of go
through here here, but earnings growth
they're saying
>> uh is looking decent here as well.
Valuations are undemanding. There you
go. Um what you're seeing when it comes
to the commodity complex, we're seeing
crude prices in China actually had a bit
lower here this morning, but you are
seeing some of the the stocks that were
doing very well this week like chips for
example, Cabric Contact is down some 4%.
You're still seeing some green when it
comes to CL this sort of like renewables
battery sort of trade. We'll talk a
little more about uh with Deutsche in
just a moment about how to position
around that China energy space just
given that they think it's it's the the
big winner in in this Iran war. Um take
a look when it comes to the Hong Kong
market obviously we did get that fix
which was a little bit on the weaker
side for remn here. So we're tracking
that very closely now that we have hit
680 uh first time in in from some time.
Um so it seems like they are slowing the
ascent a little bit from the central
bank. HStech is slightly on offer here
today. You're still seeing some green
with BU. up some 2%. Of course, uh
there's been moves about moonshot as
well. Um but yes, most of the big tech
plays are heading lower here. Uh and a
bit of a reversal from yesterday. Hang
on property though that also is slightly
to the downside here today, but you
know, certainly there's been very
interesting sort of data when you parse
through right when it comes to shopping
districts vacancy. Yeah, we're going
very very granular, dropping to the
lowest we've seen since 2024. So perhaps
signs that things are looking better. uh
in the property commercial space here as
well. So but then again today it is
overall riskoff and really you know Iran
overshadowing a lot of these these
little nuggets that we get. Well, speak
let me just add [clears throat] one
nugget from that note from Midland here
because so the in terms of being
granular. So the decline in vacancies
and here's the thing, right? So I think
a few was it last week or this week
where there was a Hong Kong uh there was
some murmurss around clamping down on
addiction because of claw claw machines.
Claw machines. Yes. So Midland's
actually coming out and saying this
decline in vacancies is because of FNB.
Yeah. We know gift shops, luxury retail
and claw machine stores. Yes. Yes. Not
not the open claw type. The
>> one where you the actual claw actual
thing where I've actually never won
anything there. Have you?
>> No. They're very difficult.
>> I think they're imposs I think that's
that's a black hole. That's a black hole
completely for
>> but I think Yeah. Um it seems like it's
a growth driver in some ways too for the
economy. Okay.
>> Uh it's so it's very interesting, right?
Um let let's get a little more from from
Jackie Tang, emerging market CIO, head
of discretionary portfolio management at
Deutsche Private Bank. Jackie, it's it's
great to have you. It seems like, you
know, today there's some wobbles, but
for the most part, this this market and
equity market in particular has really
kind of shrugged off the Iran situation.
Do you think that's the that's the right
sense that you get that the worst?
>> It's very interesting. You know, you
know, this morning when I wake up,
right? So, the first sentence that I saw
the key word is love tap, you know, from
President Trump. I think that's
basically fall directly exactly into our
base case scenario. So we uh identify
three uh case scenario regarding the war
development. Okay. So the base case
scenario is that is ceasefire but is
fragile. So that fragile ceasefire of
course you know there will be volatility
there will be here and there but very
importantly is that we think uh the
energy supply will resume majority of
the energy supply will resume at the end
of second quarter. So that basically
translate into oil price probably at $85
to $90 at the end of second quarter. So
with that basically you see all these
inflation numbers or GDP growth number
especially headline CPI. So at headline
CPI inflation there's a pickup but we
think will be a short term if our base
case if that's the base case. So if that
that's the short-term lift of the
inflation then of course that will be
you know coming back. So we don't uh be
too uh surprised in terms of inflation
that will be having a spike in the next
two months but then it will come down a
little bit afterwards and of course GDP
there will be a negative revision as
well from GDP perspective and
>> with that I think uh central banks are
carefully observing the data in order to
see if there's going to do anything
regarding the monetary policy. You see
BOJ uh ECB and Fed they are thinking
about you know holding interest rate you
know status quo at this moment wait and
see but of course if you know things
going to uh according to plan you know
there will be some uh you know interest
rate you know cut for example in uh in
FOMC probably delayed to fourth quarter
or first quarter next year
>> you just went through one scenario what
are the other two
>> the other two of course we have a base
case so base case means you know more
than 60% % chance that going to happen,
right? We have a bouc case. Bouc case
means next week things, you know, the
the reopened, everything's resumed to
normal.
>> We think there's a chance, but 15%. Bare
case, we think also not a high chance,
low chance, we think that the home will
continue to close a prolonged period of
closure probably until next year.
>> Okay.
>> So, if that's the case, oil price may
shoot up to $150 for a prolonged period
of time and that's deflationary. So uh
we don't think that that that we're
going to happen but there's a chance.
>> Oil at 8590 though yes is still high
compared to what we're used to in the
last few years. Isn't that still
inflationary? And you know how does that
affect sort of uh equity allocation?
>> Inflationary there is two two kinds of
inflationary one is short-term spike one
is more structural inflationary. So if
you look at the headline CPI uh in March
in US right so they have a pick up from
2.4% 4% to 3.3% headline CPI but you
look at the core CPI which exclude
energy right so basically is very sticky
>> so um the the month- on-month return
month-on-month uh uh uh uh percentage is
only like 0.2%.
>> So what that translate into is that uh
is more about energy not about the
broad-based inflation.
>> A few weeks ago you came out with a
report about how China energy is is sort
of be going to be emerged as the winner
in this Iran war.
Do you feel like you're spoiled by
choice in that in that trade just given
that there's so many different sort of
sectors and subsectors that you could
look into as as maybe ways to shield
this this this volatility?
>> Yeah. But of course at the same time is
that you look at the energy dependency,
right? External energy dependency. If
you look at all these Asian countries,
China is roughly a 10 to 15% external
energy dependency. You look at Japan,
Korea, even India, they're talking about
85 to 90% uh external energy dependency,
which means that uh you know this uh uh
war have a wakeup call to a lot of those
Asian countries. They may have to think
about their alternative energy uh
strategy and with that basically energy
security, energy diver uh
diversification, energy transition
becomes one of the major agenda in the
policy in the next few years because of
this uh war. So with that because you
know China they started to talk about
green economy green energy in the 11
five year plan now it's 15 five year
plan 20 years ago they start to talk
about that and of course that you know
continue to evolve the development and
all that the ecosystem is there the
infrastructure is there so I think a lot
of Asian countries they may have to uh
learn from the Chinese experience and
also for example all these company
infrastructure company equipment
companies they may benefit because they
have to uh you know work with these
Asian countries to build up their
infrastructure.
The thesis though is I think it's hard
to argue against the thesis that's it's
been very clear where the issue the
issue is where how you pick the winning
stocks right so I don't know pick a
random Chinese solar stock from the 11th
5-year plan you're probably down right
now if you just bought that stock and so
so I guess my question is how do you
take advantage of the thesis how do you
filter the big companies that are
they're competing against each other
>> they're competing each other of course
you know there are a lot of competition
and also I think very important is to
look at the uh you know go to the
fundamentals, right? So you look at uh
those companies with uh the gearing
ratio lower meaning they
>> no leverage
>> low leverage uh they have a healthy
balance sheet, right? So of course we
experience a cycle where you know always
every industry there's consolidation
there's expansion. So we in the face of
you know potentially consolidation as
well where the big uh big players may
potentially be the winner uh in this in
in in this game. So that's why again
going back to the fundamentals for those
who have a healthy profit they have a
less leverage and also a healthy balance
sheet they may benefit from this uh this
>> can you give us more examples is it is
it like the EV I mean EVs is probably
the one we hear the most right given
that you've seen overseas exports
continue to soar yeah
>> what what are some other sort of pockets
that you see as opportunities
>> like batteries right so battery
basically is the largest I mean China is
the largest producer exporters
batteries, right? And batteries is key
for EV development. Of course, we all
know that, right? So, that's why I think
these are the key areas. For example,
solar panels. China is also the largest
producer and exporters on solar panels
as well, right? So, all these equipment
companies uh may potentially benefit
from this trend.
>> What about AI? Because there's also an
energy component to the AI story.
>> Yeah. So no, of course AI is uh you know
the AI value chain that we uh so if I
mean after the dust settle we think that
the AI uh theme will continue to uh uh
to be positive and for example Korea you
look at Korea equity market Taiwanese
equity market
>> ridiculous yeah so they they up a lot
right so that AI theme will continue but
also uh you know we also advise our
client that if you look at AI not only
the tech companies but also the entire
supply chain uh of AI I so for instance
you know the uh construction company who
build data centers right utility
companies who because you know that
building the uh uh AI and and training
AI you need a lot of electricity so
utility companies and also industrial
companies right they also benefit from
automation AI and all that so all these
together are the supply chain of the AI
which a lot of people they may not
necessarily invest into those areas
because when they invest in AI very
intuitively going to the max 7 going to
all these different tech companies but
not the others.
>> Um, looking at EM and how I construct a
portfolio on on that. So, how would you
advise in terms of you know waiting
Korea, Taiwan, mainland China, Hong
Kong, what's the what's the advice?
>> So, at this point we uh you know all
Korea Taiwan uh we think after thus
settle you know Korea Taiwan will
continue to do well. uh China uh we also
uh positive on China especially after
the five-year plan u the uh the sectors
that uh uh that that that benefit from
the five-year plan will put uh will
continue to do well
>> right
>> uh we also like Japan uh we think that
Japan especially banks and also
industrial companies will benefit from
the fiscal stimulus uh from Takayachi uh
Takichi uh governance so uh all this
together we think that Asia we still
love Asia uh with an overweight uh
stance I love Asia, too.
>> Who doesn't love?
>> Well, that's why we live here. All
right. Uh, Jackie, thank you so much.
That was great. Jackie Tang, there
emerging markets CIO, head of
discretionary portfolio management at
Deutsche Private Bank. Of course, you
can check out our live online Q&A today
when it comes to Asian markets, right?
We're going to ask, will the AILE rally
help Asian companies close the gap to US
tech titans? You hear from our editors,
Balage Pens, Vlad Savv, and reporters
Luzing and Charlotte Yang. that starts
at 10:00 a.m. just about 18 minutes from
now 12 noon in Sydney. Uh just before
you might have missed it right now, this
breaking news out of Singapore here,
Dave, this is going to uh Channel News
Asia. So they're saying that Singapore
is going to be implementing new curbs
>> on executive condos. So to double the
minimum occupation period for these
executive condos here right now. So
yeah, you're seeing quite a reaction
here uh on on on Singapore here right
now. But yes, what are you seeing so
far?
>> Yeah, I mean this is a very sort of
regulatory sensitive market, especially
with big news on the property front,
right? And I think addition to that
report out of CNA is that executive
conducts will be privatized after after
15 years. We will endeavor to get you
more details on this story. It's
certainly moving uh markets as we speak.
We're down about let's call it one and
three4s at 1% on Frasers right now. We
have uh lots more ahead here on on the
show. So we'll get you more details on
this. What else is happening across
these markets today? Plenty more ahead.
This is the China show.
Welcome back here. Some of the big
stories are following around the world.
Honduras's new president is reviewing
his predecessors agreements with China,
including telecommunications equipment
from Huawei. [music] Speaking with
Bloomberg, Nazri Asfura says the
government will look over a chord signed
by his predecessors [music] government,
which recognized China over Taiwan in
2023.
>> We're seeking to strengthen the best
possible relationship of allied
countries that [music] is most
beneficial for Honduras. So, we're
heading in the direction that best suits
our interests, wherever we can engage in
commercial exchange that is most
beneficial for Honduras. As president,
it is my duty to seek out allied
countries where [music] we can have
greater trade and investment.
China central bank bought the most gold
in over a year as prices remain [music]
under pressure due to the protracted war
in the Middle East. Gold held by the
PBOC rose by 260,000 [music] troy ounces
or 8.1 tons in April. That's the most
since December 2024. It marked the 18th
straight [music] month of additions
matching the previous buying streak that
began in November of 2022. [music]
Hong Kong's deacto central bank has
shuffled five executive director roles
to prepare the organization [music]
for the next generation of leaders.
According to an internal memo, the
changes include Alan Al becoming chief
risk [music] officer for the exchange
fund investment office while Grace Lao
will take up the role to cover corporate
[music] services. HKMA is preparing for
a leadership transition with chief
executive officer Eddie Yu and his
deputies [music] being over 60 or near
that age.
>> Let's stay on central banks here. The
Boston Fed President Susan [music]
Collins says she agreed with colleagues
who've dissented over the wording in the
Fed's post meeting statement left last
week. Speaking to Bloomberg's Big Take
podcast, Collins emphasized that she is
strongly supportive of the decision to
keep rates unchanged, though she would
have preferred revisions to the central
bank's communication.
My preference also would have been to
adjust the statement to um you know not
uh be as closely aligned with language
that has been associated with the
presumption that the next move will be a
cut.
Meanwhile, San Francisco Fed President
Mary Daly has downplayed the division
among policy makers over the policy
statement. She told Bloomberg
exclusively that the phrasing of the
communication is less important than the
Fed's action.
>> Markets have priced in, you know, equal
probabilities of a cut versus a hike.
And the most likely probability is that
we hold steady. And I think that's well
positioned. So for me the the real
signal about the meeting is that
everyone agreed to the decision and that
we the communication that the chair made
in his press conference is you know
higher for longer relative to last year
but the households businesses and
markets had already priced that in. your
colleague for Boston, Susan Collins,
told us yesterday that um the phrase
about uh additional moves is associated
in people's minds with a cut now because
it's been following so so many times. Do
you still feel that that's the path for
monetary policy?
>> You know, I it's sometimes sad for Fed
officials to realize this, but there are
very few people other than all of you
and Fed watchers who look at our
statement. Most people look at how we
position ourselves and there I would say
that most people aren't worrying about
that phrase. And so I think the phrasing
of the statement is less important than
the actions of the FOMC and the actions
of the FOMC have been to really focus on
price stability when we think inflation
is rising and really focus on being
patient enough to see if if the concerns
we have are even going to materialize.
So it all comes back to how long does
the conflict last and if it's prolonged
then we might see more spillovers of oil
and other commodity prices into other
goods and services and if it comes up
quickly it it ends soon then you know
the forward contracts on oil or for oil
to come back down to around $75
depending on the day and that is
something where our businesses are
telling us oh we're looking through the
the shock right now because we we don't
think it'll last forever but it won't be
forever that we can look through it and
consumers are doing the same. Look at
the spending. They're mostly looking
through.
>> But policy-wise, uh, is the cutting
cycle over? Now,
>> I don't think I think it's really too
early to tell. If we if the conflict
ends and oil prices come back down and
that doesn't get passed into the broader
economy, then I expect the underlying
dynamics that we were facing prior to
the the conflict to return, which is
policy is slightly restrictive,
continues to put downward pressure on
inflation. The labor market is stable
right now, but it's not creating any
inflationary pressures and businesses
are cautiously optimistic. So, that's a
good dynamic for the economy and one
where I expect inflation to come back
down to our 2% target. But the main
issue is what is the risk out there? How
does the oil price shock, you know, move
its way through the economy? How long
does the conflict last? And can we
really get that 2% target that we've
been that we've been working towards?
San Francisco Fed President Mary
Dailyaly there with uh exclusively of
course with our Mike McKe. Uh you can
re-watch that or other interviews you
might have missed on our new Bloomberg
Video Hub. Subscribers can explore live
streaming news and interviews, all of
our Bloomberg TV shows, documentaries,
and reporter analysis, plus [music] of
course lots, lots more. Check it out,
bloomberg.com/videos.
Welcome back. Here are some major
corporate headlines we're tracking. Wall
Street [music] bonuses are projected to
rise for a third straight year as market
volatility boosts trading and [music]
dealmaking. Johnson Associates estimates
that incentive pay for M&A investment
bankers could increase 10 [music] to 20%
or more from a year earlier. The outlook
comes amid market swings and uncertainty
around AI, private credit, and the Iran
war. Southeast Asia's second largest
lender, OCBC, topped first quarter
[music] profit estimates driven by
stronger fee income from wealth and
insurance. CEO Tantek Long says [music]
that global conditions remain uncertain
amid geopolitical tensions and elevated
inflation risks. He maintained [music]
the bank's 2026 targets, but said the
near-term outlook depends on
developments in the Middle East.
Right. Uh just for a look at markets and
where we are right now. So I think it's
worth pointing out that volumes are on
the heavy side of things here on MSEI
China. So we're up about 20% on volumes.
We're down obviously on price as you can
see 810 to 1%. So net net as we speak.
We're still up about 3% for the week.
Still a very decent week. One still one
of the best weeks so far uh this year.
Hansing is down 1.2%. Uh just all to
tell you about the news that we got this
hour and we'll talk more about this
later. of course in Singapore and
perhaps their uh measures to maybe curb
u some of the activity that's taking
place in in the public housing space.
There's a obviously a greater nuance to
that story, but markets are reacting to
that and we'll get that to you of course
later on. Lots more coming up here in
the shows. We'll have a look at private
equity and what the latest is and the
trends there of course in China with
Deote and China AMC CEO joins us. Lee
[music] May joins us exclusively on her
take in ETF trends in the region. They
actually recently launched this ETF
[music] that invests in both US and
Chinese AI plays. Lots more ahead. This
is
[music]
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI [music]
300 a half hour into the session. Um,
yeah, we're seeing some declines here,
but they are marginal across the board.
If you take a [music] look at how
greater China is doing, we're down about
a third of 1% uh in Shanghai here right
now. Interesting enough, it was Goldman
Sachs just this morning raising their
target for that benchmark here by 6%.
So, they're talking about solid earnings
growth, mid-range valuations, and ample
liquidity could actually outperform the
HR market here just given the hits we've
really seen on software of late. But
certainly today overall risk off, Dave.
>> Yeah. Uh I think 5,300 is is the new
target there out of Goldman 12 on a CSI
300 specifically uh from 5,000
which was just a few weeks ago. uh on
that note right so if you want to get
some context where we are right now on
uh the CSI 300 it's not coming up on
your screens u I will tell oh there it
is sorry on your screens it's about 4900
uh the other benchmarks we've been doing
quite well on the hanging text we are
getting the most pullback from that
specific uh benchmark uh the rest of the
region is doing this so you have nicke
topics Cosby which has been an absolute
tear of course this week and we got
again another crazy stat out of Korea
today the current account just blowing
up um I think it was 37 billion if I'm
not mistaken current account there it
just looks absolutely insane uh on the
charts basically gone vertical as a
function I guess of the AI and memory
chips and all the exports there that is
to say also that the equity market is
has somewhat discounted of course a lot
of that already let's see what happens
here 1.4% 4%. Uh currency markets um I
guess taking into account the latest
coming through out of Iran where uh you
should be getting a stronger dollar.
You're still somewhat getting that but
it's not across the board. And I think
dollar China is now again fast
approaching the 680 handle which by the
way we took out overnight. Commodity
markets gold and silver copper and
Shanghai crude coming up on your screens
very very shortly. nothing much to note
with the exception of I and this has
really been a very good uh proxy for
risk appetite when you see that green,
silver and gold that's that tends to be
the direction of travel. US futures are
also on the way up as I speak
>> and you can check out our live Q&A today
that's happening right now in Asian
markets that's underway. Will the AIled
rally help Asian companies close the gap
to US tech titans? You're going to hear
from the likes of Val Pence, Vlad Savv,
LS Ding and Charlotte Yang. So, if you
need a break from us,
>> Yes.
>> you can also listen to I mean, you can
multitask, right?
>> Yeah. You have two ears.
>> Yeah. One, you know, it's fine. You can
look at us on TV and then listen to
them. Okay. Uh, let's take a look.
>> Um, this is what we do on TV,
multitasking all the time. Uh, let's
take a look at one of the latest when it
comes to Iran. American forces say they
have responded to Iranian attacks on
Navy destroyers as they were sailing in
the straight of Formuz. [clears throat]
Now it comes as Iran's state media say
the US attacked an Iranian tanker. For
more, let's bring in our senior editor
Derek Walbank. He joins us from San
Francisco with the latest. So tell us
about this latest clash and and what
this could lead to.
>> Well, yeah, that's exactly it. Right. We
have seen a very fragile ceasefire uh
between the United States and Iran.
There have been a couple of uh sort of
kinetic interruptions, one might say. Um
but this was a really big conflration
here. You've got uh by the United States
is telling uh three US destroyers
sailing around the straight of Hormuz.
Uh they come under attack from Iran. Uh
nothing hits the boats according to the
United States. But the United States
returns fire, strikes a fair few
military uh targets. Um and and the
question then is okay, now what? Now
where are we? You've seen a move in oil
in response to that, but you haven't
seen sort of the kind of moves that you
might see if the market was like
repricing into the idea that we are
going from here. Um, this clash really
heightens tensions in the region, right?
The US has been attempting to exit this
war. Uh, Trump wants Iran to make a
deal. He's said that a lot. Um, wants to
find a way to get out of this conflict.
Um and and he goes and he talks he
talked a couple of times. One was on
social media. He also talked later with
reporters. Uh he also had a quick call
with a news network in the United
States. But I'll I'll I'll I'll read you
here one of the things that he wrote
because because it's really important to
think of the tone that he's using. It's
I quote from the president. Just like we
knocked them out again today, will knock
them out a lot harder and a lot more
violently in the future if they don't
get their deal signed fast. All
capitalized fast with an exclamation
point. That's the United States
president here uh talking about Iran
basically saying it's time for them to
make a deal. Now, he said this before,
let's be clear. He said something like
they have to make a deal. If they don't
make a deal, bad things happen. Other
things like that. He was asked though if
the ceasefire was holding and he said
yes it was and I think that was a really
notable thing. He did say that the
ceasefire was holding. Uh he said quote
they trifled [snorts] with us today.
Trifled is his word and we blew them
away. And then he was told and and I
found this to be quite interesting. You
know he's always asked when these things
are happening in the last days, weeks,
is the ceasefire holding? Is the
ceasefire holding? He says again, quote,
"I'll let you know when there's no
ceasefire." Continues on, quote, "You're
not going to have to know. You'll just
have to look at one big glow coming out
of Iran." So, those are the words of the
president right here. Ceasefire holding,
but you can hear some quite bellose
language coming from the president
towards Iran.
there isn't there a deadline coming up
uh in as far as the uh on the Iranian
side uh looking to review this proposal
out of the US. Um where are we on that?
That's another way of asking where are
we on negotiations happen happening
hopefully underneath all of this.
>> Yeah, David, it's it's hard to say
because you're getting a lot of this
sort of rhetoric on the top and then
what communications are going on
actually between Iran and the United
States is a little bit more kind of
suspect. The US has said that they're
not even sure sometimes who's in charge
of Iran. Trump was making some comments
today about how uh Iran can say one
thing and will they stay with it and
who's got authority to make deals and
all of those sorts of things. But let me
take you underneath to what I'm watching
here and that is that Donald Trump is
going to China. Um he's he's going to
China in short order. That's a meeting
that's supposed to happen. Him and
Xiinping. That's one where we think that
Iran will be a major topic of
conversation. At the same time, you did
see senior people from Iran going and
meeting uh with with Chinese leaders in
China. Um so you're seeing some amount
of of kind of uh polarity there. U if if
if you're saying, you know, there's
there's something that's going on in
that space. You know, you have Pakistan
as another country that's been a key
intermediary here. There are
intermediaries trying to figure out what
an off-ramp looks like. But David, one
of the key things that I think is is is
really important to note here is that
somebody's going to have to move off of
their red lines in order to get to an
offramp. Donald Trump has been talking
about how the end of Iran's nuclear
ambitions is a key red line. And of
course, that's something far beyond what
Iran has ever wanted to do. In the
meantime, you're talking about a
straight of horm that's still nearly
impassable. You're talking about energy
prices still high up. You know, the
biggest economic indicator, most visible
economic indicator in the United States
is retail gasoline. Billboards on every
single major US uh intersection. And it
is screaming inflation right now.
Sometimes 50% gas price increases, 100%
gas price increases in some parts of the
United States. And we are in an election
year. So, how long can each side hold
out?
>> Yeah, 450 a gallon for the first time
since 2022. Of course, I think that was
just two days ago. Uh, and yeah, we're
there, aren't we, Derek? Thank you so
much. Derek Wallbank there, our senior
editor. Uh, so we talked about the China
angle there. Let's bring in Min Low, of
course, here to talk us through this big
meeting, of course, next week. The White
House, of course, has said there have
been no scheduling changes. We've yet to
hear, of course, from the Chinese in
terms of confirmation, but yeah, where
are we on this?
>> Yeah, we we're still waiting for the
Chinese side to tell us if the meeting
is even happening, but that's quite
typical of them. They usually announce
these meetings at the very last minute,
but you heard uh Derek Walbang just now
talking about the Iranian foreign
minister in China and actually Steve
Danes who is the US senator leading a
bipartisan congressional delegation to
China this week. He did thank China for
hosting the Iranian foreign minister and
thanking China for playing a part in
trying to mediate or to to put an end to
this war. So it looks like there is some
positive sentiment coming through in
this congressional uh trip to China
which is seen as largely a preparatory
trip because Steve Danes is likely to go
back to brief the US president directly
on what were his observations on this
trip to China and China sent him a
message to bring back. We have Chinese
state media reporting that uh the
Chinese senior officials who met with
his delegation mentioned Taiwan as a red
line that should not be crossed. Also
mentioning US suppression of AI
developments as a sort of double
standard that the US is practicing even
as they see dialogue with China when it
comes to international AI governance. Of
course they also expressed this
willingness to work with the US to uh
implement the consensus that the two
heads of state had uh had established in
Busousan as well. Uh but yes, according
to US White House official who requested
anonymity, this the trip is going to
happen as scheduled and there is really
not a lot of time left if you consider
that there were at least about four
meetings between Trump and C that were
planned this year and if China were to
return the favor to President Trump and
visit China, he has to do that likely
before the next uh apex summit that is
happening in Shenzhen in November. So,
it's a few months between now and then
when the two trips between she and Trump
have to happen.
>> We're learning a little bit more about
who might be traveling with President
Trump to Beijing. Some some big names
potentially here. Who who do we know so
far?
>> So, we know that there are a couple of
uh financial company CEOs. So, we have
uh Steve uh sorry Steve uh Schwarzman
from Blackstone Group as well as uh Jane
Fraser from Cdroup. Uh this is according
to what sources are telling us but
separately uh there have been other
media reports suggesting that the CEOs
of Nvidia, Qualcomm, Apple as well as
Exxon um that could be attending as
well. And it's important to look at
who's coming because they usually give
us a hint of what sort of deals could be
discussed. So of course a financial
company perhaps signal that maybe there
might be discussion about the opening up
of the financial services industry in
China. Perhaps uh you have the tech
company and Vidius Jensen Huang's uh
presence or absence will be very notable
because if he's not there, it also
signals something just given his close
ties of President Trump and his uh
frequent interaction with the Chinese
officials, right? He has been
instrumental in really pushing for the
rolling back of those export curves when
it comes to to the H200 chips. Uh and of
course, Exxon uh energy player, you have
Boeing as well. We previously reported a
mega deal, 500 jet deal. Of course, we
we'll have to see whether those deals
come true.
>> Yeah. Who's on the guest list? All
right. Mman, thank you. Our China
correspondent, Mman Low there as of
course as we countdown to that meeting
which is just about a week away. Well,
coming up, we're talk to Deote Asia
Pacific Sam Padet there joining us to
talk private equity and why they think
China is undergoing a structural
reshaping when it comes to the [music]
fundraising as well as the investment
landscape. That's next. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Right, welcome back. Let's turn our
attention now to uh private markets,
private equity specifically, a lot on
China. In fact, the next few minutes. So
Deoid has published their very recent
report on the landscape really what's
going on some of the key takeaways here
of course on on your screens you know a
lot of the activity has been well first
and foremost I think people have gotten
on with their lives uh away from VRO
there's a lot of state sponsored uh
activity that's going on and as far as
local funds are concerned um how are
global sponsors getting involved how has
that changed from last year and of
course the uh this exit market's also
quite interesting given Hong Kong and
maybe on the trade sales side uh join
Joining us here to to help fill in the
blanks and maybe hopefully even more uh
is Sam Padet, head of private equity
origination at Deote Asia Pacific. Here
with us on set. Very nice to see you.
>> Yeah, great to be here.
>> Uh why don't we start with uh deal flow
compared to, you know, Jan to April last
year. How is Jan to April this year so
far?
>> Well, well, in some ways it's a bit of a
dja vu. I think both years we were
having great momentum coming out of the
previous year. things were looking good
and there was an exogenous shock, you
know, be that tariffs or what's going on
right now in the Middle East. Um, that
being said, I I think the difference
sitting here today is a lot of processes
that are underway or getting prepared
for exits, uh, they haven't been pulled.
They're continuing to kind of push
forward despite the macro volatility.
Uh, and so perhaps that that points to
maybe a better year going forward here.
>> And who's kind of bringing the capital
in? I mean, you you talk about how state
capital is really kind of offsetting,
you know, foreign capital that has
largely sit on the sidelines for for
some time now. How's that changed the
dynamics and and the overall fundraising
and investment landscape now in China?
>> Yeah, there's a lot going on in China
right now. Um, interestingly, it was the
most active PE market last year by count
for deals. Um, that being said, as you
say, is very domestic driven currently.
Now some of that is state or provincial
backed particularly as you look at the
high deal counts in TMT or industrials.
Uh but you also saw a lot of consumer
activity when you look at dollar
deployed um and that deals like
Starbucks right um and and that's
actually coming from US dollar backed
funds but mostly with Chinese GPS at the
helm
>> and so I feel like we're at this point
right now there is more interest from US
dollar funds including global to
potentially invest in China they see
stability they see a strong consumer
base um and in fact to some extent the
decoupling that's been happening for the
last five years is actually making China
more appealing today uh for those funds.
But I think there is still some tension
with the LPS particularly the North
American kind of pension funds as far as
their willingness to invest large
amounts into China.
>> Why do you think that is and what could
reverse that?
>> Well, some of this goes back to
geopolitics and historically there was
always this uh this risk of stroke a pen
risk in China and this is why we saw a
number of funds pull out. Some of them
have closed shop in Hong Kong or China.
The idea that overnight your investment
could get marked down if there was a
change in regulation. Um if you look at
today's environment the rest of the
world seems to be facing a very similar
uh a similar risk if you will right a
lot outside of China.
>> Outside of China exactly now in my view
I think as that risk has increased
outside of China.
>> I think some of these investors are
still applying a China risk premium on
top of it as opposed to seeing it as the
the playing field effectively being
leveled right as the rest of the world
has gotten maybe a bit riskier. In terms
of just the structure, is that you think
how foreign capital will continue to
participate in China? So you have dollar
investors, global sponsors, but through
uh local locally led funds for example
>> potentially but but actually as we're
seeing fewer US dollars go into funds uh
they are getting more concentrated and
typically that's going into the biggest
global brand names. Uh so if you look at
funds closing last year, you saw very
big fund closes in fact earlier this
year for EQT, for Blackstone. Um the
rest of the fund closes that you saw
last year tended to be for more regional
local funds. Uh be that China focused,
Japan focused, Southeast Asia, etc.
>> Um the Middle East sovereign wealth
funds were were very active in China.
Has it changed since this war began? How
are you seeing that right now? This
dynamic?
>> I think it's maybe too soon to say. I
mean PIF has opened an office in
Shanghai. I think there's continued
support to to invest in the region and
and for many of these funds the sole
objective was to diversify was to invest
outside of the region. So I think the
real question is in light of what's
going on now you know do the priorities
shift do they need to keep more capital
at home uh I think it's maybe too early
to say where that's gone. Um but
irrespective I think investments in Asia
from the Middle East will still
concentrate on China simply because they
typically target a very large check size
and China is one of the few markets with
sufficient deals that can take that much
capital.
>> I sort of circle back but interesting
too because you that that goes back to
simply the the state sponsored funds and
the local funds and the growing
dominance of that cohort of capital. uh
what have you seen so far this year on
that and will that remain the dominant
force in in China like what's going on
there?
>> So I don't think it will remain the
dominant force. I I think we'll see more
interest from the global GPS uh over the
coming year. Um valuations are also
quite low in China. There's a lot of
opportunity and the investment thesis
that you're seeing out of PU funds has
shifted a bit. years ago, many of these
funds were looking at buying overseas
brands, bringing them to China, or
working on maybe the Apple model, you
know, designed overseas, manufactured in
China. I think there's been this shift
and a lot of the mentality now is how do
we take Chinese brands and bring them
out into the world. Um, China now, you
know, it's hyper competitive. It's like
the R&D center for many multinationals
today to find out what products work,
how you can quickly develop new
products. And so I think there is some
of this shift in taking China to the
globe. You
>> you mentioned about the deal activity
has been said around TMT industrials.
Walk us through some of the sectors
where you're seeing the most deal
activity.
>> Yeah, from a deal count perspective
certainly TMT and industrials was about
50% of deals last year. After that,
healthcare makes up about 2/3. Uh but as
I said, if you look into the dollar
transactions, consumer was by far the
biggest. Um so it kind of depends. I
believe the reason for a higher count
within TMT, within industrials is part
of those provincial funds and more kind
of quasi governmental supporting local
industries or supporting semiconductor
and kind of the the backbone to China's
AI infrastructure.
>> Energy security's come up uh because of
obviously a reminder because of what's
going on in the Middle East. Has that
featured in your conversations recently
in terms of just energy assets and how
private equity is getting involved
there? energy assets, infrastructure, I
think are all top of mind now with with
what's going on. Um, it typically sits
outside the purview of traditional
buyout funds and more in what
infrastructure would invest in. But I
but I do see a lot more interest there.
Certainly some more talk about
renewables going forward as well. Um,
and particularly as it relates to energy
independence.
>> Exits wise, what's your outlook for for
2026?
>> I think we've had such a backlog and
delay of exits. If you go back, you
know, we had COVID, then it was COVID
normalization, then it was fears of
inflation, and then it was interest
rates too high. Um, it feels like, uh,
all the market participants are kind of
in agreement that you simply need to
move forward irrespective of the macro
backdrop. And so, I do feel like we'll
continue to see more portfolios
turnover, more sales of of assets. That
being said, I I think it's still going
to continue to be trade sale focused.
And as we've seen over this last year,
now more than half of exits are going to
corporates. So certainly more private
equity exits selling to corporate
buyers.
>> Um I don't want to get you into trouble
so just share what you can. Um so what
any big deals you think we should be
paying attention to like what's what's
what's what's locked and loaded right
now?
>> Uh there's a lot locked and loaded. I
don't know that I I should name names
per se.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Give us a give us a good
clue.
>> Well, but well what's interesting is I I
think particularly if you look at a lot
of the portfolios in China, I I think
for the global funds there's a need to
kind of recycle capital. they need to
exit some of these assets they've held
five six years before they feel they
have permission to go in and make new
investments and so I think you'll see a
lot of uh these portfolio assets that
have been sitting there come up
>> all right Sam it's great to have you
yeah Sam hatchet there head of private
equity origination at Deote Asia Pacific
and coming up on the program our
exclusive interview with the CEO of
China AMC we're get our outlook for the
region and of course the rise of active
ETFs there that's coming up on this
week's ETF IQ [music] Asia Yeah.
[music]
Some corporate stories that we're
tracking for you today. [music] Vacancy
rates for street level shops in Hong
Kong's four main shopping districts
declined in the first three months of
the year. That's according to Midland
[music] ICNI that the lowest level since
the first quarter of 2024. The decline
was driven [music] by expansions in the
food and beverage sector, claw machine
stores, gift shops, and luxury retail.
Black Rockck has cut the value of its
publicly traded private credit fund
[music] by about 5% and says it
struggles under the weight of troubled
loans, markdowns, and [music] lower
returns. Black Rockck TCP Capital says
markdowns total $35 million in the
quarter that ended in March 31st. Still,
the fund highlighted [music] improving
credit quality and said it would
strengthen its balance sheet. Blue Owl
[music] Capital is set to be preparing
to launch a debut credit secondary
strategy. A source says the [music]
company is in early stage talks with
prospective investors for the fund. The
private credit secondary market allows
investors to buy or sell stakes in
private asset [music] funds, often at a
discount. The volume of secondary
transactions nearly doubled last [music]
year to $20 billion. And shares of AI
data center operator Core Weave dropped
in late trade after the company gave a
disappointing forecast for the current
[music] quarter. projections for Core
Weave's second quarter revenue and
adjusted operating income both missed
estimates. [music]
It also held off on boosting its fullear
forecasts. There are concerns about
[music] slowing growth at a time when
the company is spending heavily to
bolster its operations.
>> Yeah, after hours down 10% on that
stock. Uh we're up 20% this week on
Bayu, one of the best weeks on record as
far as being a Hong Kong company listed
company is concerned. Best week since
January to be more uh specific there. So
we're adding a further three and a half
to yesterday. I believe we were up four
on BU. And a lot of the news today is
down to this filing uh of its Kun
um it chip unit Kun Shin file this IPO
tutoring process on the starboard in uh
in Shanghai. So yeah, lots more on that.
Plus very quickly Hyundai uh this is
really on the back of optimism [music]
around this IPO of Boston Dynamics. As
you can see it's playing out across the
markets today. Lots more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
are hanging at lunch break in [music]
just a moment. Here we are seeing some
downside when it comes to stocks there
in Tokyo. NIK A225 is down more than
about 1%. Same goes for the topics here
this morning. We're still hovering in
that 156 157 level for dollar yen. Uh
but certainly we're watching very
closely, right? We crunched the numbers
on exactly how much how many billions
have been really spent uh in intervening
into the FX markets there and I think 30
billion is the latest and just the
latest round. Um just take a look when
it comes to earnings. There's some
really big ones here today, right? So
Toyota reports on Friday here. So you
know investors really focusing on what
the company has to say about what the
impact of these prolonged supply
shortages are going to be because of the
situation in the Middle East as well. U
the shares really have been
underperforming the topics uh since this
war began. Sony also reports a little
bit later on as well. The shares are
down about one and a half% leading up to
those results. But yeah, they're keen to
look at how Sony's offerings are going
to stack up against this AI generated
content when you start to see hardware
really facing some rising material
costs. Save.
>> Yeah. Because of memory,
>> right? And I think that also goes into
Nintendo which also reports today. So
the battles of the console, the console
makers there. Uh and if it's any
consolation, um uh I think the memory
store is going to be very interesting as
we look at that as well. And of course
the big news out of Sony this week was
of course they're going to be paying
almost $4 billion for uh this catalog uh
that includes Justin Bieber uh and Neil
Young. Uh one and a half% to the
downside. S&P futures good news for
bulls have now shaken off the early
weakness and we're now up for the day.
Uh was weaker on the back of reports
coming through on the latest on Iran and
that renewed skirmish. Um, as far as
that's concerned, it goes really a
reminder that this war, while the
ceasefire said to be holding based on uh
what the US is saying, it's uh so we're
nowhere near a done deal. Of course, we
haven't heard yet from the Iranian side
on the latest proposal. Uh Ed, that's
certainly a very big topic of
conversation right now in terms of where
we are in the annual AEAN leader summit
currently as we speak underway where
leaders are expected to push for a more
coordinated response to the fallout from
what's going on there in the Middle East
as the war of course grapple region
grapples with the with with this energy
crisis. Ail Hong is with us right now in
Singapore for a look at what's going on.
April, we saw the leaders. They arrived
at the venue today. What's on the plate?
what's on the agenda today?
>> Yeah, as you allude to, even though
we're seeing slight pull back in energy
prices, the energy shock is a very very
real concern for a region that imports
about twothirds of its energy needs. And
certainly that will be on the docker at
the time where leaders are perhaps
looking at a unified response to the
energy crisis. And it's not just about
energy. You think about how food prices
have also been affected given these
transport costs and there's also the
bracing for the El Nino effect a heat
wave that could exacerbate all this and
of course for the leaders Philippines is
the ASEAN chair this year that's where
these summits are being held there is
some expectation that they might push
through a proposal of how these member
countries can share fuel reserves in
times of crisis although some analysts
have really highlighted that this is
going to be really difficult to enforce
and not just difficult to enforce but
this is also coming at a time where
these member countries have been dealing
with multiple crises. I mean this time
last year we were talking about the
tariffs and then think about the
security conflicts that the region is
also grappling with the South China Sea
tensions the civil war in Myanmar even
the Thai Cambodia conflict tensions as
well. So there's a lot at stake here as
these meetings get underway
>> and it is happening in the Philippines
where we were talking about is is
feeling the effects of this war and this
energy shock. How do you think this
energy crisis is playing out across the
region here especially in the
Philippines?
>> Yeah, it's playing out pretty unevenly
and Philippines where these meetings are
being held. It's interesting that this
is also coming in a week where we've
gotten data that is enhancing the view
of the risk to seclation perhaps the
most vulnerable in the region. You look
at how inflation for the month of April.
It popped above the 7% handle. Fastest
clip since the postcoid surge. Growth
also slowest since what 2009 if you
exclude the pandemic years. And
Philippines as you well know is not
really an economy that's having a way to
capitalize on the AI boom. And that AI
boom seems to be benefiting some of
these other economies a bit more. The
likes of Malaysia or Singapore for
example. So there's also a read through
when you look at the markets reaction
including on currencies and I think
there's a chart that we can show you on
this but of course the outperformance in
some of these ASEAN FX is also related
to the idea that they have the buffers
for Malaysia for example if you're
thinking about this energy shock it has
been mitigated to some extent by the
fuel subsidies that the government has
managed to push through. So you're
seeing this uneven impact as I say and
that's playing out in the sort of
dispersion not just in stocks but in
currencies as well.
>> All right, April. Thank you. April Hong
there of course with what uh is on the
agenda there at the Azan summit there.
Some other global stories that we're
tracking for you. President Trump's 10%
global tariffs have been declared
unlawful by a federal [music] trade
court. The panel granted a request by a
group of small businesses in some states
to vacate the levies. Now, the move is a
blow to Trump's [music] economic agenda
months after the US Supreme Court struck
down his sweeping global tariffs.
President Trump has given the European
Union until July 4th to ratify its trade
agreement [music] with the US.
Washington has previously threatened to
hike tariffs on autoimp imports as soon
as this week if it failed to [music] do
so. European Commission President Ursula
Voneran says both sides remain fully
committed to the deal, but Trump has
accused the block of not moving [music]
fast enough to implement the agreement,
which was reached last July. Honduras's
[music] new president is reviewing his
predecessors agreements with China,
including telecommunications equipment
[music] from Huawei. Now speaking with
Bloomberg, Nazri Esura says the
government will look over a chord signed
by his predecessors [music]
government which recognized China over
Taiwan in 2023.
>> We're seeking to strengthen the best
possible relationship with allied
countries that is most beneficial for
Honduras. So we're heading in the
direction that best suits our interests
wherever we can engage in commercial
exchange that is most beneficial for
Honduras. As president, it is my duty to
seek out allied countries [music] where
we can have greater trade and
investment.
>> The World Health Organization officials
say a deadly hanta virus outbreak on a
cruise ship doesn't risk triggering the
next pandemic. [music]
At least three people are dead after a
cluster of infections linked to a cruise
ship in the Atlantic Ocean. Several more
have been left seriously [music] ill.
While the WHO described it as a quote
serious incident, officials don't
[music] see it as one representing a
public health threat.
>> And let's hope they're correct on that
one and it stays that [music] way. And
of course um we're just following that
very very closely. The tragedy of course
that's taking place there.
>> Um [music]
uh specifically in that part. Okay. U
just very briefly just two things to
tell you about before we take a short
break and the reversal of yesterday's ex
I would say extreme strength. It's
really the higher in the Zcore. Uh but
we're seeing the opposite today across
uh Asia EMFX. Uh where the one is
actually leading the weakness today. I
should also mention we talked about the
Philippines, right? The peso actually
had a stellar day on Thursday in terms
of the strength that that came through
there out of the the Philippine
currency. So that's that's number one.
Number two is so yes, dollar strength is
is the bottom line there. Uh number two
is Aussie markets are actually
underperforming quite sharply today in
the region. We're looking at the ASX 200
I think on track right now at 1.8%.
The worst day uh so far in about 2 or 3
weeks. So you have that's what happens
if you have financials down about 2 and
a half and mining stocks up down about
two. So really two big parts of that
story and of course his metal stories
also not playing out today and a lot of
profit taking place there in in Oz
today. And coming up, we got to talk to
the CEO of China AMC, one of the
country's largest ETF managers, joining
us with, of [music] course, her outlook
for the region. That exclusive
conversation with Lee Yime is up next on
ETF IQ Asia.
You're watching the China Show and
welcome to the final edition of our
special segment, ETF IQ Asia. And of
course, we're going to do a quick check
of some of some of these ETFs from China
AMC. We'll tell you a little bit why
later on. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and I think this is really
indicative year to date just looking at
the performance spread of what has
really been the outperformer within the
Chinese Asia market specifically when
you look at this specific cohort. Right.
So small caps have done well. We tal we
talked at length about this China rally
the semis hardware rally
>> star 50
>> star 50 was fantastic of course this
week and yes I think this tells you
everything you need to know about where
we are currently but does it tell you
where we are where we go from here? Uh
joining us exclusively here on set is
the CEO of China AMC, Lee Eime. Uh of
course they handle of course all these
ETFs that we just showed you plus many
many more. Very nice to see you. Why
don't we start with what you're seeing
in the onore market specifically in
small caps. That's the the shining new
thing right now that people are focused
on.
>> Yeah, I think uh when we look at the
market right now uh we don't really look
at small cap large cap. we really follow
the um actually value trend or industry
or even themes we say right now. So you
can see that um well the star 50
actually for us is you know the rally
behind all the technology upgrading in
China and also I think from the first
trading day of after May break you can
see that the chips ETF really you know
skyrocketed and become the shining star.
So this is really not actually about
large cap and small cap. It's more about
what is the momentum that driving the
whole market and what is the theme or
actually the industry trend that we are
investing in.
>> So is it still hardware over software
then do you think that's going to
continue on that trade?
>> I think well for the short term yes and
uh well we are not just seeing China
right the whole chain is just
>> flowing right across the whole world. So
I guess it's just uh like market
momentum is following the industry
momentum.
>> What about retail flow sentiment and
liquidity on shore? I think the last
time you were here which was before the
war started
>> uh we we talked a little bit about and
people were looking at when does this
large mountain of cash deposits start
making its way into higher yielding
riskier assets. What have you seen in
terms of that draw down there and the
transfer into equity markets? Well, I
think it's happening, but it's happening
very slowly. So, a lot of people were
really thinking, oh, this is whole
deposit is shifting into the, you know,
equity side very quickly. That's not
happening yet. But we have seen growth
in the fixed income plus product like we
say um just certain multi-asset product
as well, FOF products. So that part is
shifting and then that really translate
to some of the equity investment but
it's not happening as people anticipated
or wished.
>> Yeah.
>> There there's a lot of trends that are
going on in the China ETF market. You
guys been very active in tokenization,
digital assets. There's active ETFs. I
mean talk us through some of the the key
trends that you're seeing.
>> Yeah, I think it's different onshore and
offshore. I'm sure uh the innovation
more comes from how you're defining the
asset classes, how to actually pinpoint
what is the underlying assets really
catching on with the industry like the
largest growth for one theme ETF is
actually grid power plant equipment.
So this is a very narrow area a small
sector that attract um 20 30 billion
this year, right?
>> Can you imagine that? So this I think
the innovation comes from the asset
>> from the index from where you think the
industry's growth will happen and
everything translate into power in the
end right so this is the rationale of
the investor on shore but I think in
Hong Kong it's a different story and
more innovation really is happening like
um tokenization
and like um what you talk about active
ETF I think also could happen
>> sooner in Hong Kong then on Milan China.
>> So what are your plans on tokenization
then?
>> Tokenization um you know that we already
did the first patch of tokenized money
market fund
>> and now we are thinking about tokenized
gold ETF.
>> Oh
>> but it's not not in fashion right now
gold.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh [laughter] well
>> not that that obviously affects your
plans but but how how are you looking at
the cyclicality of gold and your product
launch? I think we are facing different
needs of the investors. Okay.
>> So it's not really what's really catchy
but what are the needs of people who are
holding on to you know stable coin in
the future. What are their needs? They
probably want to channel the value in
crypto world into the traditional world.
>> So that's to like the fusing of the two
tokenization.
>> Exactly. And then gold has been the
stabilized
measure of wealth in the traditional
war. So I think that's that bridging
really is key and that bridging is
something fundamental in the future.
>> Mhm. That middle ground between the new
and the old. I guess you got to play
with
gold. Yeah.
>> The oldest treasure and then the latest
technology. Yeah. And bridging them
together. How exciting is that?
>> Yeah. Very much so.
>> Yeah. And well, and do you have any
timeline for that?
>> Uh, we are thinking about this year, but
we will see how um, you know, the SFC
and how Hong Kong to Yeah. support that.
>> Well, they're trying to make a hub here
in Hong Kong, right?
>> That's a big thing. We talked to
Christopher Quay, right? And that's
really really a big big initiative here
for for for Hong Kong.
>> Yeah. Uh, what about active ETFs? I
mean, you said it's mostly in Hong Kong,
but how do you see that evolving? I
think active ETF really um for me is
actually the next step for how we define
assets. So now you probably know that
China MC last time we talked about this
uh I think our approach for ETF or index
is how we use active fundamental
analysis to really transfer that into in
indexation like how do we look at and
how do we optimize index all the time.
So we already have been doing that and
next step is just to make that maybe
more frequently and then transfer that
into active ETF. So it's all logical.
It's not something brand new that we are
doing. I think it follows our logics in
our ETF and index creation.
>> And just very quickly on that before we
talk about how are you looking at
competition then because a lot of
issuers are also very big on active
active ETFs and within that covered
calls and all these things. Yeah, I we
admire our competitors in all those
innovations and I I definitely think
this market is very big and just so many
smart people are working on it to
provide different solutions to end
investors which I think is good for the
common wealth of our investors. So we
are definitely also learning from our
competitors and also taking different
approach basing on our own strength
which is the you know always the
definition of the new indexes or how we
look at the future growth like uh what
we just launched about the China and US
AI ETF. Yeah.
>> March, right? How has that been going?
>> Um, well, I think it's still early in
the beginning, but we definitely feel
like this is the way to this is the way
for the future. So, the world doesn't
have to be divided as you know Chinese
camp and the America camp. the world can
be united and going for the you know
higher power in technology development
and then I think the unified view into
how jointly the two countries and even
you know bigger scene can be captured in
one ETF or in one in instrument I think
is really a solution to a lot of the end
investors
>> I think we're showing the top 10
holdings of that specific uh ETF right
so I think it's rare that you have in
one product Yeah,
>> the best of both worlds. You have the
best of the Chinese side and of course
the invid. So I guess more a technical
question. How do you guys manage the
waiting between like how do you
determine
>> how much goes into what in terms of this
this is?
>> Um well this is really coming from our
um actively managed products. Yes.
>> And then our portfolio manager will be
very actively part of this whole
process. Okay. But at the same time
there are certain requirements that we
need to meet because if we want to bring
this product also onshore to mainland
China there are certain criteria about
the ETF connect that we need to meet.
>> That's right.
>> So I think in the short run we probably
need to think about the accessibility
for different investors
>> as to how to decide on the percentage
and how to the exposure to different
markets. But in the long run, I think
it's more like what what really is the
driver who philosophy behind it.
>> Yeah. philosophy and also I think the
quantitative way of measuring things.
>> I like how it is a unity bringing unity
in the ETF world.
>> Yeah.
>> Between the US and China.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
Very well said. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And bringing tokens and gold
together, you know, like um it's
[laughter] it's very interesting too.
you you mentioned is that the next step
then to bring the sort of VTF
>> to onore markets I mean tell us a bit
more about the product pipeline for you
guys for the rest of
>> yeah I think it's it's a theme running
in our company so it's not just the AI I
think a lot of the front that we are
looking at it's it's not just very
arbitrarily you know separated by policy
makers or whatever I think the industry
level they are merging they are
exchanging ideas they are competing with
the each
So we probably like robots, high-end
manufacturer,
>> right? Like innovative drugs. So those
things are also I think very keen in
merging together and creating a greater
value for the investors.
>> Great. Uh you may it was great to have
you as always. You may leave there CEO
of China AMC. Of course you rewatch that
interview on our Bloomberg video hub.
Subscribers can explore live streaming,
news and interviews, all our Bloomer TV
shows, documentaries, reporter analysis,
and more. Check it out at
bloomer.com/videos.
All right, we're checking property
stocks in Singapore [music] on a decline
here right now. That's after the
government move to crack down on home
flipping and a bid to tame the country's
booming property market. Let's bring in
our Singapore real estate reporter,
Dexter Low. He joins us now about some
of these curves that came out just
moments ago. Just just walk us through
what we just heard and and what it means
for for the industry.
>> Uh good morning. So basically what
happened is the government had tracked
down a form of um housing. It's kind of
a hybrid form of public and private
housing known as executive condominiums.
Now it's been a segment of market that's
been very popular especially with
younger people because um it basically
provides a very good form of arbitrage
that allows you to basically buy at
basically cheaper prices in the private
market but actually sell at a much
higher price in the private market. So
what the government has basically done
is to extend a period which you need to
hold it for. So typically you hold it 5
years after completion but now you need
to hold it for about 10 years before you
can sell it to locals and you need to
hold it for as much as 15 years before
you can sell it to foreigners.
So, so Dexter, what prompted this? How
hot did that
>> Yeah.
>> pocket of this this the real estate
market get?
>> So, if you think about property market
in Singapore, it's been very running
bright hot since the pandemic, right?
And uh the private market especially has
been has been really surging and what
the government has done in the last few
years is really try to crack down on
speculation in the market. introduced a
60% tax on foreigners purchases for
example in 2023 and but problem that
keep on coming back is that a lot of
locals and a lot of new immigrants are
still buying up houses so that the
prices are still going up especially in
the private market and what that hap
what happens is that it leeches into
other segments of the market as well.
for example, in the public housing
market and and espec and in this segment
as well because people see that there is
an opportunity to make huge profits and
time and time again government has kind
of introduce all these measures to kind
of temp the market and and every time
there's a new measure the market seems
to cool a little bit and then it just
jumps right back up again.
>> Yeah, the animal spirit. Dexter, thank
you so much. Dexter Low there, our real
estate reporter in Singapore for us with
the latest curbs here coming through out
of Singapore. In fact, this one is
coming today and markets are reacting to
that story. Couple of items to tell you
about before we go. Big big big big week
next week. Trade numbers are coming
through on the weekend and of course
this big summit next week.
>> Yeah, I mean that's going to be that's
going to be the big thing here. You
know, late next week, you know, we're
still trying to confirm whether it's
happening or not, but the US seem to
suggest that things are going as
scheduled. We're still waiting for the
Chinese to confirm, but it could be
something that happens in the last 11th
hour. But certainly, there's going to be
a lot at stake here about, you know,
what does this mean for the global
economy? What does it mean about this
relationship, especially given the Iran
situation has complicated [music] things
of late.
>> Okay, so stay tuned for our coverage of
that allimportant meeting next week.
There's a ton of
>> the whole team. [music]
Everyone is going to be around here.
That's it from us here. Have a great
weekend ahead. Hug the loved ones. Thank
you for joining us this week.
[music]